---
layout: post
title: Lucky
---

When I started learning to code, it was with the intention of becoming a graphic
designer (after majoring in comparative religion and wanting to be a naturopath or
costume designer… I was really all over the place). I had been working on a portfolio
to apply to design school, and with no prior experience, I decided make a website for. In stark contrast to the other design projects I tackled,making that website provided challenges that made me want to try harder, instead of making me feel hopelessly inept. That’s when I thought, “Aha! I want to be a front-end developer!”, because it seemed to bridge my interests in language and design, and honestly, because it was the only coding job I understood.

Now that I’m learning Rails, I think I want to pursue back-end development. I’ve found I enjoy the logic and problem-solving that go along with it, but I never would have figured that out unless I had blindly tried it because there’s a pretty high barrier to entry in tech. Here’s why I think that is:

1) Exposure

If someone had suggested that I pursue computer science when I was younger, I would have
had no idea what that meant, because even as a student who did well in math and languages,
I was never exposed to computer science.

2) Accessibility

Once I started learning to code, it was difficult to know what was next, how to start
making real things and push myself. It’s hard. No tutorial is written just for you and
what you know, because there’s no conventional method of education, we all come to it
differently.

3) Visibility

We’re not all trail-blazers. At least I’m definitely not. Having a professional
role model, someone *like you* who is kicking butt is really encouraging. Before starting
Bloc, I could count on one hand the number of web developers I knew, and none of them
were women. Meeting that first person who was doing the kind of work and living the life
I wanted was a game changer for me, but it was hard to find.

This has been my experience, but with programs like [Girls Who Code](http://girlswhocode.com/programs/), and this Rhode Island [high school program](http://www.geekwire.com/2016/microsoft-teals-rhode-island-partner-bring-computer-science-every-high-school-state/) popping up, these things are all changing pretty quickly for the better. I'm glad to be a Bloc student because it's allowed me the flexibility to hold a job and (kind of) have a social life while pursuing a new career, but fortunately it will be a little easier for the next generation of baby coders on the way.

P.S. I’m going to [WWCONNECT2016](https://wwconnect2016.squarespace.com/)!
This will be my first conference, and I am so stoked! Don’t worry, I’ll be sure
to write all about it in my next post.
