---
layout: post
title: Lucky
---
This weekend I was fortunate enough to attend Connect 2016, Women Who Code’s first large-scale conference. For those who don’t know, Women Who Code is a global non-profit dedicated to inspiring women to excel in technology, and they take that mission seriously. The conference was two full days packed with tech talks, advice on career advancement, technical workshops, and the opportunity to hang out with industry leaders from all over the world.

The conference opened with a live version of WWCode's #ApplaudHer campaign, where members stood and shared their success stories to a cheering crowd. The attendees ranged from pioneering professionals to students such as myself, so this exercise ended up basically being a history of computer science. Accomplishments ranged from attendee Katherine Hitchcock’s work developing fundamental technologies like disk drives, ATMs, and laser-printers at IBM, to a bootcamp grad getting her first job.

Listening to the keynote speakers, I got a better sense of the trajectory of the tech industry. It used to be that engineers were put away in a room somewhere, and didn’t interact much with the rest of a company. Now technology is everywhere, and it’s incredibly interdisciplinary. It’s no longer uncommon for an engineer to steer decision making or even a whole company. One of the speakers, Regina Wallace-Jones, said it best, “I wonder how many more women would choose engineering if they saw it as a way to execute creativity.” It was so validating to hear someone articulate something I’ve had a vague feeling about, because when I practice coding I feel like I’m being creative, but it’s so rarely talked about that way.

I also have to say that attending this conference gave me so much hope. Everyone was so kind, thoughtful, and respectful, and I’m very happy to be able to say that these are my peers.
